let get started so today our guest is
Ilya Kramer and he's going to talk about
his project web recorder dial and a
client-side web archive player that you
can run in your browser with it
this is JavaScript so I will pass it
over to Ilya
everyone thinks jim-jim kind of asking
to present last moment Friday so I don't
have a whole lot of slides but I'll just
do a a live demo of some of the stuff I
have been working on and so I'll
probably just share my screen and
actually if you like you can also follow
along so the first thing I'll be showing
is is a recorder so I'll just serve and
clear record at i/o and the idea with my
recorder is that basically a tool for
anyone to use to archive browser traffic
as you're using it and so that basic
idea is that anything that you enter
into the browser is captured and then
you could you play it so for example
just something interesting like for
example I work for a nonprofit called
rhizome and could archive rhizomes
Instagram Edith
it's behind for the URL and hopefully my
network is decent enough right now
so it's loading this Instagram page
there's a size counter here and that is
being recorded and so the way that this
works is that it's basically a proxy so
there's a it's going through a hosted
service that's capturing network traffic
and then serving it back and as it's
doing guy that's for writing it to work
files and so I essentially what it's
doing is it's recording exactly what I
what I have you here so as I
kind of rounds around you can see the
size counter here doing up and I can
stop at any time and so this is kind of
a a user driven archiving tool however
at this point this this is using a
hosted service so it's someone
centralized right now but it's all open
source and so anyone can run it on their
own
so I got I can for example I think
there's a video here so I'll click on
this and play this video and then so
I'll stop this now and then amusing and
anonymously and then I can also click on
this and now I'm in the leaflet mode and
so now it's playing back what I've
recorded now what I mean here it says
browsing and what it has captured here
is is essentially what I've browsed so
so so far so for example I think I
should be able to click on this video
and played back again but I won't be
able to browse things that I haven't yet
brows so at some point it will stop so
for example I haven't scrolled all the
way down
and so this is also still using the web
record IO service and this is a project
I've been working on for a while and
it's part of a part of a nonprofit
called rhizome and we're in London what
I also wanted to show today is sort of a
really new idea that is now possible I
think is worth cool and I shared a
vacuum and that is so essentially the
way this works is kind of like the
Wayback Machine it's playing back URLs
that are served from from this service
but it's also possible to actually
present web archives entirely in the
browser and so do that I'll go ahead and
download this whatever chord now
creates file format called wark I was
just a standard web archiving format and
since now live that and then have
another project this is a new thing
called way back that Jas sort of the WAV
AAC which is sort of the original
spelling of wayback machine and with
this and you can also follow along if
you like it's basically just this your
OWA BWC i can actually open this work
file directly directly in the browser
and so I'll go ahead and do that now
with file are just downloaded and so it
shows Instagram and so this is using
service workers to playback a web
archive directly and so this doesn't
require any server resources at all and
so it's in this case it's it's replaying
this Instagram page entirely in the
browser there's no afraid of the file in
live before that IO and I think I should
even be able to play this video that's
been captured here and you know this is
all this is basically just a static if I
ship refresh without service workers
you'll see that it's just a runny one
github pages live I do it a normal
refresh it will wave back in the browser
and so right now this isn't yet
integrated with the idea that's anyway
but I think that this provides a
potential to serve high fidelity web
archived content from IP invest buying
doing the web archive replay entirely
client-side and yeah essentially the
idea is that any work file created with
web reporter or for example download
from to archive could be could be played
back directly in the browser
some other cool things that it can do
and this is kind of a sort of a neat
hack in some ways but also kind of shows
what it do is that it can so in turn our
kite for example it's actually possible
since it's just a static page it's
possible to archive this this page
itself into the internet wayback machine
and doing that it's possible to provide
an alternative replay mechanism to what
interact I provide so for example this
is this site archived in the internal
comms way back machine and it's actually
kind of running as a serviceworker
inside of there and with that I can
actually play back so for example I can
play back a version of cnn.com
from an archives wayback machine using
this system inside inside of their way
playback machine so this is kind of a
way back to see an inside of the wayback
machine if you will which I think the
reason I do want to do that is to
provide improved improve replay fidelity
so for example this is at cnn.com page
using wayback GS inside the interactive
way back machine if I just play back the
same state from within their regular
wayback machine it actually doesn't
render as well oh yeah so this is a way
to to essentially provide and improve
Rick Rude play mechanism and so what it
does is it basically reads the original
data from internal hive and then does
the replay on the client other things
that this can do is for example you
could record the the data that's being
viewed and create a new word file out of
it and
extract that and kind of serve that to
you so there's I that I think probably a
lot of different applications and also
the system supports hard files which are
sort of built into the browser so I want
to show another so before I use web
report that il but actually you don't
even have to use liver for that I owe to
create the web archive you can actually
also use hard files although they're not
as server example I can just using dev
tools I can kind of do the same thing I
could visit example I'll just use the
same and then I can snow with dev tools
open the browser has the ability to
track the network blog and let's say I
click on the same image night like this
and then what I can do it is uh when
this isn't problem of this is that's not
very user friendly I can right-click and
I do can do save all his heart content
and I can save this har file and Daniel
I should be able to collect C and I
should also be able to open this har
file as well far format is is a JSON
based format so it's kind of it's it's
not very ideal for uh sleep a it's not
ideal for archiving large amounts of
data and it's kind of a guys it's kind
of dependent on the browser just serve
to save everything in the heart but you
could actually do with that that way as
well so you can do it entirely well
maybe maybe the heart is in plate well
one thing's maybe maybe further this the
heart doesn't it doesn't always work at
the heart format unfortunately it would
be nice if browsers provided a way to
choose save dynamic sites directly but
we don't have that and that's why we
feel that reporter for the
but at least with a replay side we can
so I'll just go back milking again and
another example is uh that God is here
oh it's a page from Twitter and so for
example I can open this other work file
and here I can should be able to view
this Twitter when I replay also entirely
rendered in the browser and yeah so this
is basically rendering that here with C
and one final example is with the
current setup it's actually possible to
to for example link to a work file
that's stored somewhere and have way
back to G is open it directly and so so
for example I'll share this link in the
chat here and then for example see here
I'll just up sharing my screen from out
and yeah so for example this link here
actually if you load that it will load
this work file locally for you and then
render that redirect to that URL and
this should work in those browsers and
then you'll have a leaf layafette
Twitter page rendered locally and so the
idea is that right now is just loading
from from the web but of course it can
also load from idea thing us and from
from any other data source and just a
quick
well dude create a quick slide I forgot
about that so to summarize basically
yeah this is a surrealist web archive we
play designed to work with working hard
files or really get to be extended to do
anything there's no integration with our
TFS yet and I haven't done anything with
how to store more files in IVFs but my
colleague Southwood has done some work
with that with the ID WB system and so
probably that format could be used to
store work data and kind of expand on
that Wow
yeah and uh yeah that's that's kind of
the basic idea with this I think it's
pretty exciting but it can basically you
can treat web archives the same way as
other kinds of documents like PDFs and
put them in a container such as work or
perhaps the new web package format and
present them to a user to be rendered
directly in the browser so I think yeah
I'll probably answer questions for the
rest of the time great if ya put your
questions in the chat or or you can
raise your hand
Molly did you buy him yeah I was gonna
try and write my question down but
easier if I just kind of muddle through
it okay so I'm curious you mentioned
this is kind of centralized today so who
is backing up all of all of this content
who is kind of funding the the central
infrastructure to to keep all of these
archive files around is it really just
people downloading it on their own
machines or is there kind of a
coordinated effort going on here um so
with web record that IO which I kind of
kind of skim through in the beginning
but that's the main thing I work on it's
a it's it's grant funded so we have a
grant for them from the mellon
Foundation and that is run on on on
Amazon right now and of course that's
not necessarily the way to go so I'm
kind of exploring ways that that we can
not be relying on it on Amazon for the
web record that is or this but at the
moment that's where that's where it's
running and we're using the two-year
grant from the mellon Foundation to to
run web reporter but the new thing that
I showed with the browser-based replay
that essentially allows for data to be
stored anywhere and render the entire
Linda browser
well any more questions I know I kind of
skimmed through it through a bunch of
stuff real quickly
I just asked from the chat first thanks
for coming and speaking this project I
see on the site you support you know I'd
like to focus on being logged in so
that's always been a challenge for
archivists have you had any challenges
and problems around public versus
private content or people accidentally
archiving and exposing private content
is there a takedown process or um there
is and we haven't really had had
specific takedown requests I think most
users choose to so unlike for example in
your archive that their goal is to kind
of a kind of a public archive of the web
with my reporter it's sort of aimed at
users making their own personal archives
or content that is important to them and
so the data is private by default web
before it does allow users to log into
to whatever sites that they want to
archive and that's sort of part of that
one of the features is that you can log
in to two sites but of course there is
kind of a so for example though they're
all work Dana's not isn't that main
public but the except for the owner of
it of the site so does the owner of the
account and so the yeah it's essentially
whatever the users choose to me public I
think they can archive their private
data and so that is definitely something
I thought about what happens if if
someone archives that private social
media feed of and chooses to make the
public we haven't luckily had that
happen but that was something that I
thought about and have a process for
that if that does happen
so yeah I'm really excited about the
potential here for sort of like
peer-to-peer archiving so circles the
friends
capturing the websites they want and
this is just really useful for like I
tried out the system just before I hop
on the plane flying back from Barcelona
and I archived a few sites I was able to
you know look at them on the flame and
yet the because of course how how
browsers work to actually do the
archiving it is not really possible
entirely with Service Worker so it would
be great if it was like you really need
an extension probably or Weber for that
iOS enjoy you to do that to do the
entirely client-side would require an
extension but luckily with the with the
replay I think that the Service Worker
approached kind of changes the access
part so even if the user that creates
the archive must install an extension
that anyone can view it thanks to the
Service Worker approach because that's
now supported in all major browsers I
think so if I may come in so laboratoire
create Matt Kelley's tool is is there
even when you are and you don't have
access to something like the recorder
it's not as robust as well recorder
obviously but it does what har files do
except it stores things in what format
you will have to install a browser
extension obviously I think I think what
Jim was suggesting is we're like a group
of friends archiving stuff and then
collaborating and sharing the the
missing piece here is discovery so yes I
can
- job sites on my machine you cannot
have yours and there should be a means
to somehow communicate those who are
files or at least the indexes that are
created out of those and then people
should be able to you know access
captures of each other and I think there
is a golden opportunity to integrate
ipfs in this part basically - to
leverage the you know discovery
possibility somehow then basically
archive locally index it and then share
those hashes as part of the index the
way we do in ipfs sorry I'd be way back
for example and if that information is
supplied by two browsers of peers then
using service workers we can just fetch
those pieces compose them on the
client-side and serve them as pages
basically
yep yeah with this right the ideas is
that yeah this this component focuses
entirely on the on the replay so yeah I
think it would be ideal to integrate it
with other systems and you know a
separate discovery layer that could
point to example an idea this mash that
that could then for example you could
essentially represent a particular
archive pages ID this hash last time
Stein /url
right and have that be entered into into
the form to be looked up so yeah for
example I think probably integration
with the JavaScript ipfs implementation
would would make a lot of sense yes
so last week I was in DC for web
packaging workshop and I presented the
web archiving position paper there and
we see some great potential if and when
web packaging makes it to mainstream
browsers basically that will solve some
of the problems that you're talking here
you know it kind of allows you to
deliver the whole site or you know a set
of the features with all the resources
as a package and and then those pages
can render in the context of the
original domain so without the need of
you know the having another domain
serving so it's like what you do in your
replay system like the old web today
where internal browser sees the web past
web as if it is interacting with those
domains directly right because you have
a proxy layer it kind of eliminates the
need of that proxy which is cool but
there are some situations where there
are issues in the current is back and so
I was talking to folks at Hoover on that
and we sorted a few things out and
hopefully there will be some changes
accordingly
yeah the other part of this of course is
an interrogation and Trust I think which
essentially with this you know anyone
could create a work file and and render
it and say that you know this appeared
on Twitter of this particular date and
so I think that yeah that that becomes
even more important to have that I don't
know if we were to support design
exchanges for example I don't know if
they work or if there is some way to do
with client-side to have that kind of
verification I think this it will become
increased
more important is as we were we were
more stuck on the possibility of trying
to extend the trust of those signed
exchanges signed exchanges are fine they
will work for us for a few hours few
days but we are talking about not
decades but centuries to come how long
are they going to last and the trust
will remain like yeah this is indeed
came so we discussed some ideas around
that to keep their boundary extending in
you know while the technology walls you
know the similar infrastructure changes
and things come and go how can we make
it last longer that was something that
we did this ideas around that I will
hopefully be creating some tickets in
the repo to kind of echo back all the
stuff officials yeah that'd be really
cool
I really see some great potential
without having if anywhere and it makes
it so I guess times up it's just a
really short Chantal
thanks for showing us the way back yes
way back the service and I I think this
is going to be really cool to get it
working as in partnership with IVF us
and thanks yeah great thank you thanks
for having me